# A Word to the Reader

> _"Go to help."_
>
> Ms. Barrett ca. 1994

Learning to program is actually not hard.  It takes creativity, patience, and practice.  It also takes an active mind and a willingness to fail.  This book doesn't just teach you what to type into the computer.  If you apply yourself you will learn _why_ you type those things into the computer.  A good programmer always knows _why_.  I can't promise that you will become a rockstar, but you will understand what it takes to become one.  This is just a starting point and I encourage you to continue your study of programming.  Learning to program well takes most people, myself included, a _long_ time.

Like anything in life, programming is often dry, boring, tedious, and involves a lot of hard work.  It can also be extremely rewarding, both mentally and financially.  Few will rise to the heights of Bill Gates, Linus Torvalds, or Sir Tim Berners-Lee.  These people were all visionaries.  They took seemingly grandiose ideas and turned them into practical inventions.  If you have a good idea, run with it!  If you think you can make something better through technology, do it!  As with many things in life, with programming, the more of yourself you put into something \(the more risk\), the better chance you have of it influencing others \(the greater the reward\).

You will find many opinions out there on programming practices and ways of programming.  Many of these are good.  I suggest, however, that you use what best works for you.  People that subscribe _only_ to _one_ programming paradigm, for example DDD or TDD, will fail.  Both of those paradigms have wonderful ideas, but they can't make every programming situation better or even good.  It's like trying to fit a square peg into a round hole.  You have a better chance of doing so if that peg is made of a flexible, sponge-like material.  That should be your goal.  Learn about as many programming styles and pick the best pieces that fit the job to which you are tasked \(fit to purpose\).  Do what is best for your situation and it will help you succeed.

As Ms. Barrett constantly told my Microsoft Office applications class in 1994, "Go to help."  She would then leave the room and the students would ask me their questions.  We didn't have internet access at the time and couldn't find the answers online.  When I started .NET development in early 2002, there were few places to get answers except for Microsoft's official documentation and printed books.  Today, some programmers have built their careers solely based on code copied from StackOverflow answers.  Even I have done this for a small Node project recently, as I needed to stitch two NPM modules together to do perform a small job.

What you _should_ do is learn to program well and augment your knowledge with the sources you find via Google search and StackOverflow answers.  If you have a question while going through this book, look it up!  If you question something, look it up!  Today you can find an answer to damn near any programming question.  Don't blindly trust all answers you see, but most of them are perfectly fine.  I certainly had to research many things while writing this book.  Even with 17 years of C# experience, I don't remember every esoteric detail nor do I know how to do everything.  Here's a secret: no one does, but many are good at faking it.
